# Analyzing the Cellular Atlases of Ovarian Micro Environment Highlights the Black Rice Diet as A Strategy for Alleviating Aging
Ovarian aging often exerts detrimental effects on female fertility and overall health. Therefore, developing strategies to delay ovarian aging is imperative. Whole-grain black rice is acknowledged as a longevity-promoting food; however, its comprehensive nutritional value and specific effects on ovarian aging remain unclear. In this study, we elucidated the intervention effects of black rice and constructed a single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the ovarian microenvironment. Initially, black rice intervention improved the structure and functionality of mouse ovaries, enhancing reproductive capacity and concurrently rescuing the expression of genes associated with ovarian function. Moreover, black rice consumption attenuated alterations in stromal cell composition, fibrosis-related gene expression, and transcriptional regulatory network changes associated with ovarian aging. Simultaneously, it rescued alterations in granulosa cell composition, cell cycle dynamics, and transcriptional regulatory network changes related to ovarian function. In summary, our findings provide strategies and targets for delaying ovarian aging, enhancing our understanding of dietary interventions in delaying ovarian aging. This will contribute to meeting women's reproductive needs and promoting healthy aging, while also providing a theoretical basis for the development of functional black rice products.
